hundreds of people protesting against
Israel's military offensive in Gaza have
clashed with Riot police in the
Jordanian Capital am man Security Forces
struggle to contain the crowd trying to
break through a cordon outside the
Israeli
Embassy un Security Council is set to
vote on a resolution demanding an
immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza
during the musl uh the Muslim holy month
of Ramadan the vote comes after Russia
and China vetoed a US sponsored
ceasefire resolution on Friday un Chief
Antonio gues says people will starve to
death if more Aid is not allowed to
enter Gaza the current in well Germany's
top Diplomat has returned to the Middle
East in hopes of bringing about a
ceasefire in Gaza foreign minister
analina Bach arrived in Cairo where
she's expected to hold talks with her
Egyptian counterpart she'll fly on to
Israel and what will be her sixth visit
to the country since the Hamas Le Terror
attacks on October 7th she's also
expected to visit the Israeli occupied
West Bank and meet Palestinian Authority
leader Mahmud
Abbas well joining me now in the studio
is DW's Middle East analyst shaie
rosanis shy Germany's foreign minister
is visiting the region at a time when
efforts to secure ceasefire in Gaza are
intensifying uh anel Bach is currently
in Cairo what can we expect well the
deal of the hostage deal that we're
talking about a ceasefire hostage deal
that's very much the center of attention
right now the whole region is expecting
if this deal will go through to have
some sort of of of of a break for a
couple of weeks probably 40 days that
will maybe bring a new momentum because
we've seen the dire situation in Gaza
the humanitarian crisis the famine we
also know that militarily Israel is not
making much progress and and need might
be regrouping and might use that time to
come up with a better plan for what's
going to happen in Gaza and this is
probably part of the center of the talks
for analor in Egypt also we know that
Egypt and Germany have very strong
defense ties so that's also part of that
of course um the needs for uh more
defense for uh the Egyptians have very
much uh escalated following what we've
been seeing in Gaza Egypt being you know
a major uh partner for the uh uh
Palestinians as the one having a border
with Gaza other than Israel now barbach
will travel to Israel later today uh she
and many others have voiced concern
about Israel's plans to launch an
offensive on the Rafa the city of Rafa
in southern Israel more than a million
Palestinians are Sheltering right now uh
is prime minister Netanyahu Israeli
Prime Minister Benin now is he showing
any willingness to reconsider his plans
to launch that assault on Rafa no not
officially at least uh he seems very
adant in still going through a very
massive ground Invasion military
operation into Rafa that that city that
is on the border between Egypt and Gaza
which also affects very much Egypt as a
great concern for the Egyptians what
happens in case that the over 1 million
uh Palestinians that had to flee there
will try to find Refuge are they going
to cross the border what that might mean
what that that could also have risks for
the Egyptians that's one part of that
but there's also the issue of Rafa
itself the the Israelis seem to be
pushing forward uh for more uh uh
military operations there they claim
there are four battalions of the of
Hamas of the terror organization that
are still there the world the Americans
also we've seen uh the the chancellor
Schultz there last week we see Bok this
week are saying maybe there are other
means to achieve your goals of
eradicating Hamas of of of building
something new for the Palestinians
without this operation that might bring
many more dead people into Gaza we've
already seen 32,000 Palestinian Dead uh
how are you going to manage uh in RAF
now with over a million people that are
there big diplomatic efforts underway uh
as you say Germany's chancellor was in
Israel just last week now we've got uh
the foreign minister heading there from
from Germany as well how is this
increased pressure from Germany on
Israel being seen in Israel we're seeing
great concern Israel's isolation feels
you know going growing bigger and bigger
um and Germany and the Americans are the
top allies of Israel they're also the
top uh aid provis providers to Israel
and that means that there's also
leverage there's possibility for both
both the Americans and Germany to decide
that they condition supply of weapons or
maybe uh put any sanctions in Israel and
limitations on the uses of uh weapons
being provided by these two allies if
that happens Israel ability to complete
its operation the way it plans it right
now in Gaza is going to be very limited
um and this is a great concern in Israel
definitely okay shaie we'll leave it
there our Middle East analyst shaie
rosanis thank you very much welcome
sir journalist Karim Al Gori joined us
from Cairo tell us more about bok's
meetings in
Egypt well what we hear from the
Egyptian sites there were meeting and
there were three main topics uh the
first topic uh concerning the fear the
Egyptian fear of an Israeli incursion
into Rafa which is right at the Egyptian
border the Egyptian foreign minister
said that would be a situation that
would be a catastrophe and that would be
extremely difficult uh to control
something I think uh
beook is also agreeing with the second
topic is the also Egyptian frustration
about the aid coming into the Gaza Strip
also from the Egyptian side everything
has to be approved by the Israeli side
and that is very slow there needs to be
more Aid coming in also something the
Egyptian and the German side basically
agreed on and the third one is of course
the Egyptians briefed
the the foreign minister German foreign
minister on where negotiations are
standing with the Egyptians and the the
kataris
are mediators between Hamas and Israel
and the last thing the Egyptians made it
again very clear to for bebook that um
they want to have and there needs to be
an unconditional ceasefire
now Karim the UN Security Council votes
on a ceasefire today the US warns that
that could hurt hostage negotiations
what's your
take well the US put their own
resolution
in lately and it was trying to link the
ceasefire with the hostage release uh
other states were saying that this kind
of a pick and choose situation where
which would not end the war immediately
and this is why we have now a second
attempt
today brought in by other states asking
for an immediate ceasefire for the rest
of the months of Ramadan and that should
enter into like a more sustainable
longer ceasefire and there's no
connection to the relief release of
hostages in this resolution and the UN
describes the situation in Gaza yet
again as catastrophic dozens of Aid
trucks are waiting at the Egyptian
border with little access especially to
the north what are you hearing from the
people
there yeah I mean just
yesterday got a message a voice message
from the north from a family that is
there's a lawyer he's living in Gada
City with his three kids at the age
between 4 and 11 his pregnant wife is
taking care of his two elderly parents
and he is describing it was 26 minutes a
voice message of total misery he
explained uh the situation of food is
catastrophic they said at the beginning
they ate their stock then they started
to uh do less meals then there was less
food during the meals and now there's
really no food he says they're eating
greener they find which they cook and
then put it on the plates they looking
through other destroyed houses by
Palestinians who left the northern Gaza
trip in the hope that they find some
food there also he said the the water
situation is also difficult he takes he
walks every day for about five
kilometers to get some kind of water
which is actually not really drinkable
because it's kind of mixed with sewage
water and it's very salty and he he
describes it there's all kinds of living
beings swimming in this water so very
difficult and uh the last situation he
really explained was the psychological
situation of his children he said like
all his children are right now too
scared to go to the toilet on their own
and he describes the psychological
situation of his four-year-old which
basically he says he's sitting all night
on my lap and he makes all kinds of he
stops talking he made all makes all
kinds of strange noises and uh he's
afraid that uh his kids basically are
losing their minds so it's a very very
miserable situation when it comes to
food when it comes to water when it
comes to the mental situation of the
people who are right now in the Gaza in
the northern Gaza Strip and that is
underlining I think the need that is
also discussed today in the UN Security
Council about the immediate ceasefire
for humanitarian reasons especially in
Northern Gaza kareim thank you very much
for bringing us up to date on the
situation both in Gaza and from The Talk
there in
Cairo